# Introduction To Image Processing

## What is an image?

An image is a visual representation of in object or a scenario. It can be in the form of paintings, drawing, photograhs or any form of deception visible to our eyes. Digital Image is a form of image that is stored and processed by computers. Digital image consists of finite number of elements called pixel, each of which has a particular location and value. Image Processing refers to processing images using digital computers. It consists of processes whose inputs and outputs are images and encompasses range of tasks such as extracting features from an image, detecting objects, segmenting regions and so on.

## Image Representation

Digital Images are represented as a grid of pixels,each pixel containing information about its color and intensity. Images can be of three types:
 - 1. Binary Image: Pixel can hold only two values i.e 0 and 1. Binary images can only store two colors: Black and White.
 - 2. Gray Scaled Image: Pixel can hold values betweeon 0 and 255. 8 bits is required to store the values. The color of these images can be described as having shades of gray.
 - 3. Colored Image: Colored images typically have three channels—Red, Green, and Blue (RGB). Each channel holds pixel values between 0 and 255, similar to grayscale images. However, instead of representing different shades of gray, these values indicate the intensity of the respective color.
 
 Lets look at three different images to understand them better.
 
 
